Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain a fantasy romantic comedy film
called “Penelope,” Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The Wilherns are one of the wealthiest and
prestigious families of Nobles. They are respected
by all in society. But not until the family’s son
named Ralph Wilhern gets into an affair with their
housemaid Clara who turns out to be pregnant. He
wants to marry Clara, but his family laughs at the
thought. They want him to marry someone from their
own social class, and he obliges for the family’s
name. A heartbroken Clara commits suicide because
of the betrayal. Clara’s mother is the town’s
witch who is enraged by her daughter’s death. At
night, she shows up at the Wilhern’s property and
spreads animal gut all over their lawn. Using her
powers, she binds them with a spell and curses the
next Wilhern daughter to be born with the face of
a pig. She claims that only when “one of their own
kind” will claim the girl as their own, the curse
will be broken, and her real face will be back.
For the next five generations, all of
Wilherns’ brides give birth to sons. Finally,
in the sixth generation, a girl is born to Ella
and Leonard Wilherns, but she doesn’t have a
pig face. The family celebrates, thinking
that the witch’s curse mustn't have worked.
But little do they know, Ella has been cheating
on Leonard, so the daughter is not a Wilhern.
So, the firstborn Wilhern girl is Penelope,
the daughter of Jessica and Franklin Wilhern.
The witch’s curse has worked on Penelope, and
she is born with a pig’s nose and ears. Since
the Wilherns are the talk of the town, the birth
of the girl is heavily anticipated by the media.
Jessica doesn’t want anyone to see her daughter.
She even blinds one of a reporter’s eyes because
he gets a glimpse of her. She fakes Penelope’s
death and then cremates her non-existent body
so that no one will ever try to look at her
face. She then decides to never let the girl
go out until the curse is broken. They even talk
to a doctor about surgically removing the nose
and enhancing it. But it turns out that the
carotid artery runs directly through her nose,
so if it is cut, Penelope will die. Jessica even
stops everyone in the house from ever eating
bacon. No one was allowed to call Penelope a pig,
even if it was just a joke. Little Penelope would
sometimes run out to their main gate but Jessica
didn’t even allow that. With no way to get her
daughter a normal face, Jessica settles to finding
the solution in a traditional way. Since the witch
said that the curse would end when one of their
own kind accepts the girl, Jessica believes it
will go away, once Penelope gets married
to someone within their social status.
She has been trying to find a husband for her
with the help of a dating agent named Wanda
ever since Penelope’s eighteenth birthday. All
the men she has ever brought to meet Penelope
have run away. Penelope has never been out of
her house, and since the news of her existence
should be kept a secret, the men who come to see
her are made to sign a non-disclosure agreement
after the meeting. The ones who run in fear after
seeing her face are brought back by the family’s
butler named Jake to sign the NDA.
It has been seven years, but she hasn’t
found a suitable man. One day, Edward Humphrey
Vanderman III, the son of a wealthy businessman,
comes to meet Penelope in the hopes of dating her.
But when he gets a look at her face, he runs away
horrified, like every other man. This time,
the butler Jake is unable to catch the man,
so Jessica is distressed. A horrified Edward
goes to the police station to report a demonic
girl with fangs trying to kill him. But
the police don’t take him seriously. The
Wilherns know how to stop the rumours from
going around, so they publish an article
about Edward being a delusional maniac.
The next day, Edward goes to the newspaper company
and demands the news be removed because it will
affect his father’s reputation. A journalist named
Lemon hears Edward shouting about the pig girl and
claims that he has also seen the girl. As it turns
out, Lemon is the reporter who Jessica had blinded
because he got a glimpse of Penelope. He wants to
take revenge on the Wilherns, and Edward wants to
gain his reputation back, so they join hands to
expose Penelope’s existence. They plan to send a
man as a suitor and secretly take pictures of her.
Their only problem is that Jessica only looks
for wealthy men, so they cannot bribe anyone
with money. Lemon knows a formerly wealthy
and elite man named Max who spent all of his
father’s money on gambling. He can be disguised
as wealthy and sent to take the picture.
The following day Lemon approaches Max, who
accepts to do it after receiving the money. Later,
they are in front of the Wilhers’ residence. Lemon
makes Max wear a jacket with a camera fixed on it
which takes a picture when he raises his right
arm. Max and the other guys are made to sit in
the house’s library that has a one-way mirror
and microphone so Penelope can see and talk to
the boys without them seeing her. Max hides
behind the couch to adjust his camera when
Penelope comes into the room. All the other guys
run away in fear after seeing her face, but Max,
who hasn’t seen her face, stays. Penelope
knew this would happen, so she isn’t even sad
anymore. Suddenly, she notices Max still sitting
on the couch through a camera. Penelope is beyond
surprised and goes to talk to him through the
one-way mirror. She finds him taking a book from
the shelf and putting it inside his jacket.
Max is startled when she calls him out and keeps
the book on the table. She asks him if he
saw her face, but Max vaguely says he has.
The two talk for a while and bond, but she
never shows him her face. Before Max leaves,
Penelope asks him to come back tomorrow. Both
Wanda and Jessica, who have been listening to
the conversation, cry tears of happiness.
The following day, Max meets Lemon and Edward
outside the Wilherns’ residence and changes into
the jacket again. Max goes inside and waits for
Penelope in the library again. He gets bored and
starts whistling on a toy frog. Penelope suddenly
asks if he plays any instruments. He, in turn,
asks her to guess. The Wilherns set up a band with
several instruments in the library and make Max
play them so Penelope can guess. They two laugh
as Max plays the instruments horribly.
In the end, he is playing the piano while
she instructs him from the other side of the
mirror. Suddenly, Max feels a hand over his and
turns around. He is shocked to see Penelope’s
face for the first time. But he doesn’t seem
disgusted or afraid. Rather, he lifts his arm to
touch her face but accidentally clicks a picture.
He curses at the fact, but Penelope thinks it is
because of her face and runs away. Max tries to
stop her, but when she doesn’t, he makes his way
outside. Instead of handing the camera to Lemon,
he respects Penelope’s privacy and breaks
it. Lemon and Edward are furious and ask
for their money back. Just then, Jessica and
Wanda come outside and see Max with Lemon.
Jessica figures that Max is a spy, but Max comes
inside anyway. While the two talk, Max realizes
that Jessica is looking for someone of their
social status, because only he can break the
curse. Penelope appears on the stairs and asks Max
if he will marry her and help her break the curse.
To her dismay, Max replies no.
At night, Penelope decides to run
away from the house and live her life on her own
accord. She covers half of her face with a scarf
and sneaks out through a window. When Jessica
finds out, it is too late. Edward and Lemon,
who had been keeping an eye on the house,
also find out about her running away.
Meanwhile, Penelope sees a crowd of people for
the first time. She takes a long walk in a park,
as she had always wanted to, and calls her mother
for the last time to say she isn’t coming home
anymore. She then enters a hotel to stay for
the night and pays using her mother’s card.
Meanwhile, Lemon and Edward put out an
advertisement in the newspaper with a sketch of
a Penelope look-alike, claiming that whoever finds
a picture of such a girl will be rewarded five
thousand dollars. Penelope knows she can’t use
her mother’s card because it can be traced back
to her, so she calls Lemon. Penelope wants to sell
her own picture for the money. Lemon and Edward
are surprised but agree. She takes a picture of
herself in a photobooth and brings it to Lemon.
The following day, Penelope’s picture is published
in a newspaper for the whole world to see.
Penelope then goes to a pub where she meets
a girl named Annie and befriends her. Annie
gives her a ride on her bike. Meanwhile, Max sees
Penelope’s picture in the newspaper and is furious
at Lemon. When he goes to confront him, Lemon
tells him that Penelope sold the picture herself
and that she is declaring her own independence.
The news makes Max want to pursue his dream of
being a pianist in a band again. He goes to his
old friend and re-starts playing the piano.
Cut to a few months later. Penelope has been
living her life to the fullest, going to circuses,
ice skating, bars, and whatnot. She sends
her parents a postcard every time she tries
something new. One day, her parents spot her while
walking through the city. She tries running away
and ends up in the pub with Annie. An exhausted
Penelope faints, and the scarf from her face is
removed. Everyone sees her face and is surprised.
When Penelope wakes up, she is in a hospital bed.
Several reporters take her pictures, and
she becomes the talk of the town.
In contrast to what she had thought, Penelope is
loved by people and becomes a celebrity herself.
For the next few months, she is all over the
newspaper. She no longer needs to conceal her face
from anyone. Edward, however, still sees Penelope
as a hideous monster. He mistakenly expresses his
feelings in front of the press and angers his
father. To redeem his and his father’s image,
Edward proposes to Penelope. Penelope accepts the
proposal after being persuaded by her mother.
Meanwhile, Lemon finds out that Max has been
arrested for armed robbery and goes to meet
him in prison. However, he is surprised to see
Max’s friend, with whom he used to play poker.
He soon realizes that he has mistaken Max to
be the son of a formerly wealthy man when he is
actually a normal guy with gambling problems. It
turns out that his real name is Johnny Martin, and
he had lied and taken the job for the money.
It is now the day of the wedding. Lemon approaches
Jessica and Wanda to tell them that Edward that
he was the one who published Penelope’s picture.
They finally find out that Johnny said no to
marrying Penelope because he knew he couldn't
break the curse as he isn’t “their kind”. Even
after knowing this, Jessica insists on letting
Edward marry Penelope. At the altar, Penelope
is asked if she takes Edward as her husband. She
goes silent for a while and says she doesn’t. She
then rushes inside the house. Jessica follows her,
saying that this is her only chance to get rid of
her ugly face. Penelope retaliates and says she
likes herself how she is. Suddenly, a force pushes
her, and she falls unconscious. When she wakes up,
her nose has gone back to normal. The curse
has been broken because “by their own kind”,
the witch meant that she had to be accepted by a
wealthy aristocrat, including Penelope herself.
If Jessica had taught Penelope that she is
beautiful just the way she is, the curse
would have been broken a long time ago.
The following day, Wilhern’s butler Jake walks
out of the house with his luggage. As Jessica
yells at him to come back, she loses her voice.
Then, it is revealed that Jake is the witch who
had cursed the family and had been watching them
suffer all this time. Penelope also leaves
the Wilherns’ residence and starts working
as an elementary school horticulture teacher. One
Halloween, she decides to meet Johnny again and
goes to his house party with Annie. She knocks
on his door with a pig snout mask on her face.
As they talk, Johnny figures out that it
is Penelope and the two finally kiss.
Sometime later, we see the two telling
Penelope’s horticulture class about their story.
Lemon watches them from a rowboat in the nearby
lake. He tries snapping a picture of new Penelope
to write about it in the newspaper but sees
how happy she is and cancels the plan.
The movie gives us a beautiful message that
a person’s real beauty is not what their face
looks like but their kindness. Like Penelope,
many women are made to feel insecure about
their unique features, but in reality, all
of them are beautiful in their own way.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.